Hi there. In this video, we are going
to learn about the RM command, stands for
remove, and it will permanently remove files or
folders from your system. So you do have
to be a little bit careful with the
the r m command. There's no trash can
and there's no, way to really get back
unless you use the backup directory, which means
that you may have something from the previous
day. But if you're working on a file
that's an hour old and you remove it,
well, it's gone forever. So you have to
be a little bit careful. Let's see what
we can do. In this folder here, we
have some folders and some files. Let's say
that I don't want file one dot txt
anymore. So I can just type rm file
one dot txt which stands for remove file
one and then the nice thing about the
myth system is it asks you if you
are sure you wanna do that and I
can type yes and it's gone. So that
file is gone forever And unless I have
it in my backup somewhere or somewhere else
it's gone. So you have to be a
little bit careful there. Now, I also have
some other folders in here so let's do
assign twenty three. So that's a directory and
if I just type r m assign twenty
three, it will say, I can't remember that,
it's a directory. So what you can do
is you can say r m dash r
assign twenty three and that will recursively go
into assignment twenty three and ask you for
each file if you wanna do each file,
right? And that's kind of painful if you
wanted to do that, but it's and then
it goes into other directories and so forth
and you just have to keep hitting Y
to do this. There we go and I
hit Y too many times. Let's do this.
Let's copy dash r assign zero to assign
23. So let's recreate the assign 23 folder
and let's do it a slightly different way
so we don't have to hit y all
these times. Now what you can do is
you can say rm rf for force and
then I can do assign 23 and oops
assign 23 and it will remove all the
folders or all the files and folders underneath
that and it will remove the assign 20
three directory. So notice there's no assign 23
directory. Now this dash r f notice it
didn't ask me, prompt me for anything and
it just did it. You have to be
very very careful. If you are on your
own system and you type something like r
m r f slash that would go and
remove as many files as it could throughout
your entire system. Now, luckily most of the
files in slash are root access only, which
means you can't actually access them, but this
would be a very very bad command. So
you have to be very careful when you
use dash r f because it's helpful and
that it doesn't prompt you for every file,
but you just have to know exactly when
you're using it. What if I had done
this? If I had done RM -RF assignments
and then forgot to do like and then
I did assignment assign zero and I forgot
the slash in there, it would go and
remove everything in the assignments folder and then
try to remove everything in the assign zero
folder but that's already not even there and
so forth. That would be very very bad.
So you have to be very careful when
you use the r m command. There's another
choice if you have a directory that's empty.
Let's try 23 again. So now assign twenty
three happens to be completely empty. You can
also just type instead of r m dash
r assign twenty three which would work and
it would ask you if you wanna do
that. You can also type r m d
I r assign 23 and it just says
oh look if it's an empty directory I
can remove it immediately and that's how that
works. So that's the RM command. Thanks.